docs/perfs.md, before:


# Performance hints

## Analysing bundles content

There is two tools in dev dependencies that may help analyse and understand what is encapsulated in each bundle.

You need first to build in production mode with some flags on to generate a few statistics:

```bash
npm run build:stats
```

Then you may analyse each report with the tool of your choice.

### webpack-bundle-analyzer

This module will help you:

- Realize what's really inside your bundle
- Find out what modules make up the most of its size
- Find modules that got there by mistake
- Optimize it!

A few notes:

- This module is compatible with minified bundles!
- It parses them to get real size of bundled modules
- It also shows their gzipped sizes
- Tree map is zoomable

```bash
# Show a global tree map including all bundles
npx webpack-bundle-analyzer dist/brennus-tp/stats.json
```

As a shortcut for WBA, you can run:

```bash
npm run stats
```

### source-map-explorer

More or less like webpack-bundle-analyzer except that:

- it only works with one bundle at a time
- it works with css bundles too!
- it gives you an incremental percentage value per level of encapsulation

```bash
npx source-map-explorer dist/brennus-tp/main.*.js dist/brennus-tp/main.*.js.map

# Works with css too
npx source-map-explorer dist/brennus-tp/styles.*.css dist/brennus-tp/styles.*.css.map
```

Or simpler:
```bash
npm run stats:se --bundle=styles.*.css
```

## Icons

Icons are picked from [Material Design Icons]. But we are not using the default solution with the font icon cause it adds 44K and 800 icons when are using just a few.

Instead we are generating an svg sprite in `src/assets/material-icons.svg` containing only icons we really need via:

```bash
npx gulp svg
```

SVG files are referenced in `gulpfile.js`.

In order to use an icon in a component template:

```html
<ba-svg-icon icon="menu"></ba-svg-icon>
```

With this solution it is also possible to use it directly without any wrapper:

```html
<svg class="svg-24px"><use xlink:href="material-icons.svg#ic_menu_24px"></use></svg>
```

This is a drop-in replacement for `<mat-icon>`.

`<mat-icon>` is not used cause it doesn't handle nicely svg icons. It is a good pick for font icons though.

Advantages:

- the weight is much more lighter depending on the number of icons included
- with the right build tools we could inline svg automatically and style specific parts if needed
- icon is always perfect, no antialiasing problem nor size selection ([see this comment](https://github.com/google/material-design-icons/issues/582#issuecomment-287492782))

Consequences:

- a build task must be added to create the sprite
- the icon is not a font and thus doesn't inherit current text properties like font-size (the color is inherited though is you use the component)
- compatibility will reduce: Internet Explorer, Edge, and older Android and iOS browsers cannot use external svg files. There is nonetheless a polyfill named [svg4everybody](https://github.com/jonathantneal/svg4everybody). More info in [Material Icons Guide].

A few remarks:

- icons are downloaded directly from material design icons site and not installed via npm:
    - it avoids us a slow download over network of the entire library
    - it allows us to download the icon we need in the form and color we need directly without searching it in node_modules
    - svg icons are downloaded in 24px size and put in `svg` folder
    - the downloaded file should be renamed to respect `<ba-svg-icon>` convention name: `<name>-24px.svg`
    - you can then declare it in `gulpfile.js` and generate again the sprite: `npm run gen:svg-sprite`

## Dynamic imports

It is possible to already use dynamic imports today although it is still a TC39 proposal. 

In `tsconfig.json`, the `module` property must be set to `esnext`.

In your component, you have to use the reserved `import()` function. You can optionaly name the chunk.

For instance, if we want to load a heavy module to generate excel spreadsheet, it is quite probable we will not want to include it
in our main bundle. We can load it on demand and even choose the chunk name generated by webpack.

```typescript
import( /*webpackChunkName: 'excel'*/ 'xlsx').then(excel => {
    // Do something with your loaded module
});
```

## Possible optimisations

TODO

[SVG sprite]: https://github.com/google/material-design-icons/tree/master/sprites
[Material Design Icons]: https://github.com/google/material-design-icons
[Material Icons Guide]: http://google.github.io/material-design-icons/
[Material Icons]: https://github.com/marella/material-icons

Commit message:

docs(perfs): add new inspection tool "bundle-buddy"

docs/perfs.md, after:


# Performance hints

## Analysing bundles content

There is three tools in dev dependencies that may help analyse and understand what is encapsulated in each bundle.

You need first to build in production mode with some flags on to generate a few statistics:

```bash
npm run build:stats
```

Then you may analyse each report with the tool of your choice.

### webpack-bundle-analyzer

This module will help you:

- Realize what's really inside your bundle
- Find out what modules make up the most of its size
- Find modules that got there by mistake
- Optimize it!

A few notes:

- This module is compatible with minified bundles!
- It parses them to get real size of bundled modules
- It also shows their gzipped sizes
- Tree map is zoomable

```bash
npm run stats:wba
```

As webpack-bundle-analyser is the most used tool, you can generate statistics and launch WBA in one command with:

```bash
# Shorcut
npm run stats
```

### source-map-explorer

More or less like webpack-bundle-analyzer except that:

- it only works with one bundle at a time
- it works with css bundles too!
- it gives you an incremental percentage value per level of encapsulation

```bash
npm run stats:se --bundle=dist/*/styles.*.js

# Works also with CSS
npm run stats:se --bundle=dist/*/styles.*.css
```

### bundle-buddy

Complementary tool that can help find duplicate codes between bundles.

```bash
npm run stats:bb
```

## Icons

Icons are picked from [Material Design Icons]. But we are not using the default solution with the font icon cause it adds 44K and 800 icons when are using just a few.

Instead we are generating an svg sprite in `src/assets/material-icons.svg` containing only icons we really need via:

```bash
npx gulp svg
```

SVG files are referenced in `gulpfile.js`.

In order to use an icon in a component template:

```html
<ba-svg-icon icon="menu"></ba-svg-icon>
```

With this solution it is also possible to use it directly without any wrapper:

```html
<svg class="svg-24px"><use xlink:href="material-icons.svg#ic_menu_24px"></use></svg>
```

This is a drop-in replacement for `<mat-icon>`.

`<mat-icon>` is not used cause it doesn't handle nicely svg icons. It is a good pick for font icons though.

Advantages:

- the weight is much more lighter depending on the number of icons included
- with the right build tools we could inline svg automatically and style specific parts if needed
- icon is always perfect, no antialiasing problem nor size selection ([see this comment](https://github.com/google/material-design-icons/issues/582#issuecomment-287492782))

Consequences:

- a build task must be added to create the sprite
- the icon is not a font and thus doesn't inherit current text properties like font-size (the color is inherited though is you use the component)
- compatibility will reduce: Internet Explorer, Edge, and older Android and iOS browsers cannot use external svg files. There is nonetheless a polyfill named [svg4everybody](https://github.com/jonathantneal/svg4everybody). More info in [Material Icons Guide].

A few remarks:

- icons are downloaded directly from material design icons site and not installed via npm:
    - it avoids us a slow download over network of the entire library
    - it allows us to download the icon we need in the form and color we need directly without searching it in node_modules
    - svg icons are downloaded in 24px size and put in `svg` folder
    - the downloaded file should be renamed to respect `<ba-svg-icon>` convention name: `<name>-24px.svg`
    - you can then declare it in `gulpfile.js` and generate again the sprite: `npm run gen:svg-sprite`

## Dynamic imports

It is possible to already use dynamic imports today although it is still a TC39 proposal. 

In `tsconfig.json`, the `module` property must be set to `esnext`.

In your component, you have to use the reserved `import()` function. You can optionaly name the chunk.

For instance, if we want to load a heavy module to generate excel spreadsheet, it is quite probable we will not want to include it
in our main bundle. We can load it on demand and even choose the chunk name generated by webpack.

```typescript
import( /*webpackChunkName: 'excel'*/ 'xlsx').then(excel => {
    // Do something with your loaded module
});
```

## Possible optimisations

TODO

[SVG sprite]: https://github.com/google/material-design-icons/tree/master/sprites
[Material Design Icons]: https://github.com/google/material-design-icons
[Material Icons Guide]: http://google.github.io/material-design-icons/
[Material Icons]: https://github.com/marella/material-icons
